<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">

<head>
  <title>Dotepub.com</title>
  <link href="../../../../1/1/OEBPS/styles/dotepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>

  <div id="further_study" class="">

    <div class="titlepage">

      <div>

        <h1 class="title">Appendix A. Appendix: Further Study</h1>

      </div>

    </div>

    <p id="you_are_a_troup">You are a trouper for making it this far. We’ve covered a lot of ground, and by now you have a decent handle on D3’s basic concepts and common techniques. If you’ve learned anything, I hope it’s that there are always several (or tens, or hundreds of) ways to accomplish the same task—that’s the joy of programming, right? I’ve presented the ways that, to me, are the simplest or most intuitive, and the least difficult to understand. But there are probably <span class="emphasis"><em>better</em></span> ways to do anything that you learned in this book, whether “better” means “more computationally efficient” or “makes more sense to you and your way of working.” I’m a fan of the latter definition. Programming is like solving a puzzle; it’s up to you to figure out how to tell the computer what to do what you want—using language that you, the human, can still understand.<a id="id569959" class="indexterm" href=""></a></p>
    <p style="font-style: italic;">Usted es una compañía teatral para hacer esto ahora. Hemos cubierto mucho terreno, y por ahora tiene un mango decente en de conceptos básicos y técnicas comunes D3. Si has aprendido nada, espero que sea que siempre hay varios (o decenas, o cientos de) maneras de lograr la misma tarea, eso es la alegría de la programación, ¿verdad? He presentado las formas en que, para mí, son los más simples o más intuitiva, y los menos difíciles de entender. Pero probablemente hay mejores maneras de hacer todo lo que has aprendido en este libro, ya sea "mejor" significa "más eficiente computacionalmente" o "tiene más sentido para usted y su forma de trabajar". Soy un fan de la última definición. La programación es como resolver un rompecabezas; le toca a usted para averiguar cómo decirle a la computadora qué hacer lo que quiere-utilizando un lenguaje que, al ser humano, todavía puede entender.</p>


    <p id="d_is_a_powerfu">D3 is a powerful tool, and we’ve only scratched the surface. As you begin work on your own visualization projects, you’ll discover many additional helpful methods and sneaky shortcuts. There are lots of valuable bits that I didn’t cover here, such as D3’s built-in methods for working with date and time values, dynamically selecting and calculating colors, and painlessly manipulating arrays, for all your client-side data processing needs—just to name a few. There is a <span class="emphasis"><em>lot</em></span> to this tool. I’ve tried to introduce you to the core concepts, and now you’re ready to go dig into the pieces that really interest you.</p>
<p style="font-style: italic;">D3 es una herramienta poderosa, y sólo hemos arañado la superficie. A medida que comience a trabajar en sus propios proyectos de visualización, descubrirá muchos métodos útiles adicionales y accesos directos furtivos. Hay un montón de cosas valiosas que yo no cubrir aquí, tales como métodos incorporados de D3 para trabajar con valores de fecha y hora, de forma dinámica la selección y cálculo de colores, y sin dolor manipulación de matrices, por toda su procesamiento de datos del lado del cliente necesidades- Sólo para nombrar unos pocos. Hay una gran cantidad de esta herramienta. He tratado de presentar a los conceptos básicos, y ahora está listo para cavar en las piezas que realmente le interesan.</p>

    <p id="so_where_to_tu">So, where to turn next? Here’s a collection of valuable resources to aid you in your quest. Keep in mind that the D3 software itself is still evolving, and so are these resources. By the time you read this, there might be some other helpful website or set of tutorials not mentioned here. That is why I recommend that you don’t just read, but <span class="emphasis"><em>get involved</em></span> with the D3 community. Join <a class="ulink" href="https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/d3-js" target="_top">the Google Group</a>, follow people on Twitter, and keep your eyes open for the latest developments. Start a discussion, and meet fellow data visualizers in your local area. If there aren’t D3 datavis groups getting together in your area yet, then start one yourself. The more we can learn from each other, the better.</p>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Así, hacia a donde ir? Aquí hay una colección de valiosos recursos para ayudarlo en su búsqueda. Tenga en cuenta que el software D3 en sí es todavía en evolución, y también lo son estos recursos. Por el momento de leer esto, puede haber algún otro sitio web o un conjunto de útiles tutoriales que no se mencionan aquí. Por eso le recomiendo que no acaba de leer, pero involucrarse con la comunidad D3. Únete al grupo de Google, sigue la gente en Twitter, y mantener los ojos abiertos para las últimas novedades. Iniciar una discusión, y cumplir con los visualizadores de datos compañeros en su área local. Si no hay D3 datavis grupos que se reúnen en su área, sin embargo, a continuación, iniciar uno usted mismo. Cuanto más podamos aprender unos de otros, mejor.</p>

    <p id="after_all_havi">After all, having worked through this book, you’re part of the community now (whether you like it or not). Welcome!</p>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Después de todo, después de haber trabajado a través de este libro, que eres parte de la comunidad ahora (nos guste o no). ¡Bienvenido!</p>

    <div class="sect1" data-original-filename="14_appendix.asciidoc" id="_books">

      <p id="getting_startin"><a class="ulink" href="http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920025429.do" target="_top"><span class="emphasis"><em>Getting Starting with D3</em></span></a> by Mike Dewar. O’Reilly, 2012.</p>


      <p id="yes_theres_on">Yes, there’s only one other book on D3 so far. Mike Dewar’s introduction tackles some more advanced topics, and includes sample projects with real-world data from New York City’s transportation system. (Fun!)</p>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Sí, sólo hay un libro sobre otra D3 hasta ahora. Introducción de Mike Dewar con fuerza a algunos temas más avanzados, e incluye proyectos de ejemplo con datos del mundo real de sistema de transporte de la ciudad de Nueva York. (¡Divertido!)</p>

    </div>

    <div class="sect1" data-original-filename="14_appendix.asciidoc" id="_websites">

      <div class="variablelist" id="djsorg_your_s">

        <dl class="variablelist">

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="http://d3js.org/" target="_top">d3js.org</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Your starting point for everything D3. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Su punto de partida para todo lo D3. </p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://github.com/mbostock/d3/wiki/Gallery" target="_top">github.com/mbostock/d3/wiki/Gallery</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> The D3 gallery contains <span class="emphasis"><em>hundreds</em></span> of examples. Add your own work! </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">La galería D3 contiene cientos de ejemplos. Añadir su propio trabajo!</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="http://bl.ocks.org/mbostock" target="_top">bl.ocks.org/mbostock</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Even more examples, in this case all by Mike Bostock, each one typically highlighting just one of D3’s features. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Aún más ejemplos, en este caso todo por Mike Bostock, cada uno típicamente destacando sólo una de las características de D3.</p> 

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://github.com/mbostock/d3/wiki/API-Reference" target="_top">github.com/mbostock/d3/wiki/API-Reference</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> The D3 API reference, an essential reference for every method and its parameters. </dd>

<p style="font-style: italic;">La API D3 Referencia, una referencia esencial para todos los métodos y sus parámetros.</p>
          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/d3.js" target="_top">stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/d3.js</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> When you get stuck, post questions on StackOverflow with the <code class="literal">d3.js</code> tag. </dd>

 <p style="font-style: italic;">Al llegar, hacer preguntas pegado en stackoverflow con la etiqueta d3.js.</p>
          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/d3-js" target="_top">groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/d3-js</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Everyone who’s anyone is on the D3 Google Group. Find out about the latest projects and developments here. (Please save technical questions for StackOverflow.) </dd>

<p style="font-style: italic;">Todo el mundo que es alguien está en el grupo de Google D3. Averiguar sobre los últimos proyectos y desarrollos aquí. (Por favor, guarde las cuestiones técnicas para StackOverflow.)</p> 
          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="http://bl.ocks.org/" target="_top">bl.ocks.org</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> A service for posting code hosted on GitHub’s Gist, by Mike Bostock. Perfect for quickly sharing your work with others, such as when seeking help on StackOverflow or boasting about your latest triumph on the Google Group. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Un servicio para publicar código alojado en Gist de GitHub, por Mike Bostock. Perfecto para compartir rápidamente su trabajo con otros, como cuando buscan ayuda en StackOverflow o haciendo alarde de su último triunfo en el grupo de Google.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="http://blog.visual.ly/creating-animations-and-transitions-with-d3-js/" target="_top">blog.visual.ly/creating-animations-and-transitions-with-d3-js/</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> An excellent tutorial on <span class="emphasis"><em>Creating Animations and Transitions With D3</em></span> with lots of inline, interactive examples by Jérôme Cukier. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Un excelente tutorial sobre la creación de animaciones y transiciones con D3 con un montón de línea, los ejemplos interactivos por Jérôme Cukier.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="http://www.d3noob.org/" target="_top">d3noob.org</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> A new, promising resource for D3 tips and tricks. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Un nuevo d3noob.org, recursos prometedor para consejos y trucos D3. </p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="http://tributary.io/" target="_top">tributary.io</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> A live-coding environment for experimenting with D3 code, by Ian Johnson. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Un entorno de codificación en vivo para experimentar con el código D3, por Ian Johnson.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://github.com/d3/d3-plugins" target="_top">D3 Plug-ins</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> A listing of all the official plug-ins that extend D3’s functionality, in case it doesn’t do enough for you already. </dd>
          <p style="font-style: italic;"> D3 plug-ins Un listado de todos los plug-ins oficiales que amplían la funcionalidad de D3, en caso de que no hace lo suficiente para usted ya.</p>


        </dl>

      </div>

    </div>

    <div class="sect1" data-original-filename="14_appendix.asciidoc" id="_twitterers">

      <p id="twitter_is_a_gr">Twitter is a great way to find out about the latest projects and D3 developments. At the risk of omitting many amazing people, here are some you should follow:</p>

<p style="font-style: italic;"> Twitter es una gran manera de obtener información sobre los últimos proyectos y desarrollos D3. A riesgo de omitir muchas personas increíbles, aquí están algunos que usted debe seguir:</p>
      <div class="variablelist" id="mbostock_mike_">

        <dl class="variablelist">

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/mbostock" target="_top">@mbostock</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Mike Bostock, for announcements on D3’s progress as well as new visualizations for <span class="emphasis"><em>The New York Times</em></span>. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;">Mike Bostock, para anuncios sobre el progreso de D3, así como nuevas visualizaciones para The New York Times.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/jasondavies" target="_top">@jasondavies</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Jason Davies, for all manner of geographic and mathematical mapping experiments. </dd>
        <p style="font-style: italic;">Jason Davies, para todo tipo de experimentos de mapeo geográfico y matemáticos.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/d3visualization" target="_top">@d3visualization</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Christophe Viau, for frequent updates from all over the D3 universe. </dd>

        <p style="font-style: italic;">Christophe Viau, para las actualizaciones frecuentes de todo el universo D3.</p>
          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/enjalot" target="_top">@enjalot</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Ian Johnson, for loads of new coding tools and techniques, plus video tutorials. </dd>
        <p style="font-style: italic;">Ian Johnson, por un montón de nuevas herramientas y técnicas de codificación, además de tutoriales en vídeo.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/syntagmatic" target="_top">@syntagmatic</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Kai Chang, for too many D3 experiments to count. </dd>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/jcukier" target="_top">@jcukier</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Jérôme Cukier, for innovative visualization projects with insightful process notes. </dd>
        <p style="font-style: italic;">Kai Chang, durante demasiados experimentos D3 a contar. </p><p style="font-style: italic;">Jérôme Cukier, para proyectos de visualización innovadores con interesantes notas del proceso.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/darkgreener" target="_top">@darkgreener</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Anna Powell-Smith, for beautiful interactive visualizations that explore personally relevant data. </dd>
<p style="font-style: italic;"> Anna Powell-Smith, de bellas visualizaciones interactivas que exploran datos privados pertinentes.</p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/vlandham" target="_top">@vlandham</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Jim Vallandingham, for excellent process notes on projects as well as great tutorials. </dd>
  <p style="font-style: italic;">Jim Vallandingham, por sus excelentes notas del proceso de proyectos, así como grandes clases particulares. @alignedleft </p>

          <dt><span class="term"> <a class="ulink" href="https://twitter.com/alignedleft" target="_top">@alignedleft</a> </span></dt>

          <dd> Scott Murray, for learning about errata, updates, and revisions to this book, as well as future data-driven projects. </dd>

<p style="font-style: italic;">Scott Murray, para el aprendizaje de erratas, actualizaciones y revisiones a este libro, así como proyectos futuros basadas en datos.</p> 
        </dl>

      </div>

      <p id="i_should_acknow">I should acknowledge that, yes, there are mostly men listed here. As of this writing, the community of D3 users and contributors tends to skew quite male. I hope that future editions of this book can confidently include a more diverse listing.</p>
  <p style="font-style: italic;">Debo reconocer que, efectivamente, no son en su mayoría hombres que figuran aquí. Al escribir estas líneas, la comunidad de usuarios y contribuyentes D3 tiende a sesgar bastante masculina. Espero que las futuras ediciones de este libro pueden incluir con confianza una lista más diversa.</p>

    </div>

  </div>



</body>

</html>